Exerpt taken from:  https://archive.org/stream/internetbbss00rich/internetbbss00rich_djvu.txt


A PERSONAL HISTORY OF THE BBS 



a 2400-baud modem. Before long, I was a bona fide expert in an industry where 
nobody seemed to know a whole lot about anything. 

Sometime around 1986, the Abyss faded into obscurity. The Spider Goddess, 
who turned out to be a very young and extraordinarily shy and quiet preteen, had 
better things to do, such as graduate high school. Shadow, the faithful servant, 
was in fact her older brother, and left to take some high-tech job in another state. 
At the time I saw this as an end to an era, and even speculated that BBSs would be 
sucked down into a real abyss by the up-and-coming national services, like Com- 
puServe. For a short time I was even a member of CompuServe, but it never gave 
me the same sense of place that I felt on the Abyss. And there were no Spider God- 
desses or soft-spoken moderators. If you messed up on CompuServe, you were 
unceremoniously booted offline. I became a wanderer. We all became ex- Abyss 
wanderers searching desperately for a new home in the online world. We tried 
every new BBS that opened up, we mourned the BBSs that closed down. 

During Christmas of 1986, Dave and I decided to get together and buy our 
mutual friend, dungeon master, and ex-Abysser, Paul Martin, a special Christmas 
gift. Paul started like the rest of us, tinkering and playing around with early home 
computers, and had something we lacked — a spare computer. It was an Atari 
1040ST that Paul had bought a year earlier to play some great games. Well, Dave 
and I splurged and bought a $25 BBS program for it. In January of 1987, Paul, 
Dave, and myself started the Dragon Keep BBS with a single 300-baud modem 
and a 720K floppy drive. Paul became The Dragon, and Dave and I became his 
ever-devoted servants Loric and Cerebus. We designed the BBS around what we 
had learned from the Abyss — do it with flair, treat members with respect, and cre- 
ate a real place people can call home. And many people did. 

Over the next nine years Dragon Keep grew and matured much like the online 
world itself. In 1989 we shifted platforms to a DOS-based PC, and our BBS soft- 
ware to MajorBBS by Galacticomm. We spent almost six months redesigning the 
BBS to look and feel like the Atari-based BBS. After all, this was the home for sev- 
eral hundred other modemers, and we didn't want to upset our online family. We 
chose this new platform because it allowed us to have more than one phone line, 
and therefore would eliminate much of the 3 AM redial sessions we all had to 
endure. It also allowed us to have live chat, so instead of writing messages back 
and forth over time, we could talk in real-time. But I think what really sold us on 
the idea was a game called Galactic Empire where upwards of sixteen players 
could fly though a fantasy universe in customizable space ships and blow each 
other up — real-time. 

We had no idea at the time how going multiline would alter this online com- 
munity, and it did change the face of BBSing for us and everyone else for ever- 
more. In the old Abyss days, visiting the BBS was a solitary activity. You read 
messages at your pace, and replied in the quietude of your home computer. 
Although you knew others were members of the same community, once you were 



ix 



A PERSONAL HISTORY OF THE BBS 



online, you were by yourself. The very nature of a multiline BBS changes the ethe- 
real quality and atmosphere of the place. Now when you visited, the first order of 
business is to see who else was online too. The pace was fast and furious. Games 
that were played turn-by-turn over weeks and months, were replaced with real- 
time, heart-pounding, life-and-death episodes where decisions had to be made in 
seconds. Discussions could be started in live chat and completed in the same 
login. 

When BBSs started going multiline, they went from having a small-town, slow- 
paced atmosphere to a more dynamic and interactive cyber-city. We also soon dis- 
covered that the more lines, the better the interaction. The feel of the community 
used to change daily, but once the additional lines went in the feel changed 
hourly. Eventually we grew to 40 phone lines, and over 4,000 members. By late 
1994 we had received more than one million calls. This hobby was clearly getting 
out of hand, but regardless of how large our community grew, or how much bet- 
ter our features and software became, the BBS was still a place you could call 
home. 

When the Internet became available to me in mid 1994, 1 felt a revolution was 
in the making. When 1 finally ventured out on the World Wide Web, my first reac- 
tion was that it felt like a highway full of bill boards. Lots of pretty pictures to 
look at but no place to pull over. There was no resting place on the Web. I also felt 
like I did when I called my first BBS. I was there, but where was everyone else? A 
Web site is basically an online publication and the user's only interaction is with 
the author of the site. Outside of reading someone's guest book, or noticing a 
site's hit counter, you'd have no idea that anyone else had ever been there. Web 
sites only half-heartedly wanted my input, which would be solely for the eyes of 
the Webmaster. These were relatively static places. I'd also estimate that at least 
half of all Web sites are merely lists of links to other Web sites. I suppose you 
could say that after spending a decade onHne, I was not immediately impressed 
by what the Internet had to offer. 

The power of the Internet, and its relationship to the BBS world, is the power of 
communications. In addition to the basic Web browser, Internet users have an 
array of tools that can be used to take advantage of the connectivity that comes 
along with the superhighway. One of these tools is caUed telnet, and with it, users 
can connect to Internet-connected BBSs around the world. For the most part, the 
Internet-connected BBS is still just a BBS — a place designed to encourage human 
interaction. It is surprising how little the basic concept has changed. There is a 
steady and slow migration of BBSs to the Web, and with that migration, the Web 
will, in fact, become an interactive environment. The move is simply because 
more people have access to the Web than any other part of the Internet, and BBS 
sysops are abundantly aware of that fact. With that move, 1 believe the Web will 
be greatly enriched and changed for all time. 

The technology of the BBS has changed dramatically. Message conferences 
have grown from a dozen or so local topics, to thousands of inter-networked 



X 



A PERSONAL HISTORY OF THE BBS 



conferences with hundreds of thousands of participants. Back in 1982, twenty 
megabytes of files was an impressive collection. In 1996 there is a BBS with an 
amazing 175 CDs online (each with 600 megabytes of files). Multiuser chat has 
blossomed from a dozen local BBSers to thousands of Internet-connected chatters. 
And games... well, I would not have thought that P Man could have evolved so 
quickly to the virtual reaUty world of multiplayer Doom in only fourteen years. 

Over the years BBSs have come a long way, yet remain true to the spirit of the 
information age. As the Internet's only real interactive communities, BBSs are 
there to remind everyone that the power of the Internet is people, not technology. 
No matter how far you may travel on the I'way, you'll always come home to your 
BBS. In some respects, I miss the simplicity of my old Abyss, but 1 would not go 
back even if I could. This new world has some real possibihties. 

